From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lauren's Ryan
announcing show number one 40
recorded live Monday, December 1st, 2008. Support
for Hanselman it's is provided
by teller. Rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is
also provided by.net developers journal.
The world's leading that net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks about
domain driven design with Rob
Connery. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
gosh, I'm breaking the rules.
I've got Rob Connery on
the show. Again, this is
a, you were in on
the show in September, October,
somewhere in there. Right? I
feel so very lucky. I,
you know, I've just, I
run out of guests and
now I'm doing repeats. It's
just horrible, famous people. Won't
talk to me. So I'm
talking to you. Oh, thank
you so much. Well, you
know, I'm glad to fill
in as always, I feel
like Keith Olbermann on David
Letterman. Yeah. You are exactly
like that. Does that make,
I guess that would help
me Letterman, which is not
a bad thing. No, exactly.
Actually, I, we, we, people
don't realize that you and
I, we talk daily a
couple of times a day.
You've come to the house.
We talk all the time.
So we worked together a
lot. We're working on a
little project on the side
right now, but one of
the things that you've been
working on is trying to
learn the domain driven design.
And I think a lot
of people would really appreciate
the way that you're learning
in public. I think both
of us kind of have
that style. I mean, you
know, w we know what
we know, and we're very
clear about what we don't
know. And when we don't
know something, we want to
learn it, but why not
learn it in public and
have people learn with us
and, and you've been learning
domain driven design. It generally
seems like a good idea
to do that. Cause people
do, as you're saying, you're
saying appreciate the learning process.
However, sometimes I do feel
like I might just end
up being the village idiot,
you know, like, you know,
it's, it's hard to kind
of put out what you
don't know and then, Oh
my gosh, is that too
much that I don't know.
And then people say, Oh,
this guy doesn't know anything.
Right? Yeah. I do think
about that sometimes. I mean,
I know there are some
things that I feel good
about the things I've spent
10, 15 years learning and
working on, but there's definitely
stuff that I have no
idea about. You know, someone
will send me an email
and they'll say, you know,
help me do this obscure
thing and WCF, you know,
standing on your head. And
it's like, you know, I
haven't spent as much time
in WCF as I have
an ASP net. I don't
know what do we do
now? It's like, well, find
somebody who knows. So that's
what you did. You found
someone who knows domain driven
design and, and the goal
of this podcast is to
talk about not what domain
driven design is, is necessarily,
and the final word on
it, but what resources are
available for people to learn
this, this style of design.
So, so what did you
do? You decided you needed
to learn this? Why? Well,
it was interesting when I
was doing the MVC storefront,
I got to a certain
spot where I said, okay,
let's wrap this thing up,
let's put it to bed.
And you know, you kinda,
you, you start going over
your code and refactoring it,
any comments. And as I
started to do that, as
well as explain it to
other folks internally at Microsoft,
I realized that there was
a lot of what they
call smell in there. There
is just things that naming
conventions is ways I was
carrying out logic. That just
didn't make sense. And I
think it's natural for every
project to get to a
certain point where you say,
okay, we gotta, we got
to shake things a bit
and, and restructure it to
make more sense. And so
that's the point I hit.
And I said, well, you
know, a lot of people
have been after me talking
about domain driven design DDD,
especially because I started using
the repository pattern as my
data access. And they kept
saying, well, you know, in
DDD, this is what we
do. I said, well, I'm
not doing DDD. And I
thought, well, maybe, maybe it's
about time because I know
one thing I do know
is that DDD is about
addressing complexity. And I felt
like I got to a
certain point of complexity with
it all. So yeah, that's
what I'm doing. And yeah,
I want to underscore what
you just said. One more
time. This isn't me explaining
how DDD works. This is
me explaining how I'm learning
it. And I hope everyone
understands that. So you, we
back up a second, you
said that this is a
record refactoring. Like you, you
got to a point in
your MVC storefront where things
smelled bad enough to, to
change things, but now you're,
but you're still continuously refactoring.
So how is this refactoring
different from the kinds that
you're doing all the time?
W it's different because the,
the approach that I took,
the way that I separated
the classes out the way
that let me see if
I can give you a
concrete example. Well, let me
answer your question first, the
way that I was kind
of looking at the complexity
of the site, you know,
they're usually, it's sort of
an intuitive thing. You get
a flow going like, this
is how this logic is
carried out where an order
is processed. You go through
these steps, you know, it's
always kind of a, a
test when you try and
explain that to somebody else
and you stumble and that's
what was happening. So when
I realized is it, wasn't
just a part of a
refactoring step that I needed
to do. It's actually a
restructuring. So that made sense.
And I wanted to be
able to look at Bertrend,
who's my new manager and
say, well, the storefront works
in X, Y, Z, and
we use this pattern here.
And, and so that's how,
that's how I want it
to, to, to be, to,
to carry out if that
makes sense. Okay. So, so
where did you start? Well,
it was a, it was
really tough to get started
because it's funny, the first
person I talked to is
Jeremy Miller. I sent him a
little tweet, Skype message, and
he said, Hey, Jeremy, I
really need your help. Or
you're up on DDD? Aren't
you? And his answer was
really funny. He, you know,
he, he embraces DDD and
I don't want to speak
for Jeremy in any sense,
but one of the things
he mentioned was that there's
a difficulty with what he
called the jargon explosion and
Well, yeah, I mean, I
feel I'm an interrupt. I
feel like, I mean, there
are, there are a group
of people who speak with
authority on a lot of
these things. And, and as
you know, there's DDD and
BDD and all these different
designs. And, you know, I,
I didn't even know what
kind of design we did
at my, at my last
job. And we were a
scrum shop. We were an
agile shop. We did some
design up front, and then
we did the rest of
it as we refactored. But,
you know, I think it
was DDD like, but there
was only so many jargons
in so many, three letter
acronyms that one could possibly
use at one time. Exactly.
And well, that's why, so,
you know, to, to come
back to your question, that's
exactly where I got started
was learning just what is
this jargon? And unfortunately, one
of the problems that DDD
has, and this isn't me
railing, this is just an
issue is that the jargon
is insanely generic. So to
give you an example, one
of the things that a
concept that you learned is
something called an aggregate route.
And then another thing you
learn is a bounded context.
The term domain, and the
term entity are probably two
of the most generic words
in the English language. So
you don't really have an
innate understanding as you would,
if you're reading something based
on like relational design, for
instance, I mean the term
relational, it says a lot.
How does data relate in
a database? So that's the
first place I started was
it cracked open? I went
down to borders and I
opened, opened up Eric Evans book,
which is kind of considered
the DDD Bible by a
lot of people it's tackling
complexity and programming design or
something like that. But anyway,
it's Eric Evans, DDD book, it's
blue, and that's how you'll
know it. And it's a
great read and it really
is awesome. And the next
one I got was Jimmy
Nelson's book, I'm applying domain
driven design I'm in.net. And
both of them were extremely
helped. Yeah, it is. It
is the Bible or, I
mean, is it just, you
know, I'm looking here on
Amazon. One guy says it's
just another patterns book. And,
you know, and I hear
when people talk about DDD,
they, they, they spit out
a whole bunch of new
patterns that are not necessarily
the gang of four patterns
that I'm used to, although
a lot of them are.
Yeah. You know, that's what
I put on my blog
last week when I said
I was, you know, kind
of taking a hard look
at D D D I
said, really D D D
is a collection of patterns.
And a lot of folks
jumped on me in a
good way to say, Hey,
it's, what's way more than
that. And it's true. It
is way more than that.
But the technical aspect is
knowing some core patterning that
really all of us have
learned at some point or
may have learned. And it's
learning how to implement it
properly, to bring about what
it is you're trying to
do. There's a nice plan
statement for you. No, the
things that I've read on
DDD though, are, so what's
the word just kind of
up in the sky heady,
they don't get into a
lot of, a lot of
detail. You know, the, there
doesn't seem to be really
good examples and then people
keep falling back and saying,
Oh, well, blah, blah, blah.
The repository pattern, blah, blah,
blah, the aggregate pattern. But
I don't quite, I hear
a lot of words, but
I don't see a lot
of clarity is this is
this, is this, this feeling,
is this the natural feeling
one has when they start
digging into this stuff? It
absolutely is. And I got
really frustrated. I was told
a bunch of conflicting things
when I, you know, I
kinda Twittered what I was
wanting to do. And a
couple of people said to
me, Oh, you know, DDD
is something you can't really
factor in. And I said,
well, my goodness. And then
you know how to get
it? How do you get
started with it then? And
someone else said to me,
well, you know, for what
you're trying to do, it's
not complex enough yet. And
I said, well, if I
don't have a level of
complexity and I can't really
factor it in, it doesn't
make any sense. Where do
I get started? It's catch
22. So I had a
lot of frustration, but you
know, the interesting thing is,
as I just slowly patiently
worked through that frustration, I
realized that, and this is
kind of segwaying into the
next phase of the discussion
here is that DDD is
a lot about discussion. It's
a lot about dialogue. In
fact, it's 80%, probably 90%
about dialogue. And, and only
until I was working out
this restructuring of the application,
did I realize how much
dialogue is involved and how
that really is the cornerstone
of it all, at least
what I have interpreted it
being. And I'll give you
an example of that. I
was trying to figure out,
you know, where exactly does
a shopping cart live, you
know, and is really a
shopping cart, just an order.
You know, there's a lot
of questions about how that
plays out in eCommerce. And
I talked to, I talked
to a nice guy of
Ben Taylor. We had a
Skype conversation yesterday and he
said to me, well, you
know, what you'd really want
to do is sit down
with your customer and ask
them, well, how do they
view a shopping cart? Well,
you know, you just get
to the concepts of it.
And so I said, well,
I don't really have a
client. I can kind of
remember what my old client
KLA, Tencor, I built them
an eCommerce site before. I
can kind of remember what
they're saying. And so we
started this dialogue, you know,
and he, he started asking
me about it. And in
the course of the discussion,
we nailed it. And, and
it was because we used,
we used just regular English.
We talked about, you know,
the concepts that are into
the store, but we focused
mainly on the business approach.
And as we started talking
through the business approach, it
shook out the technology, which
I thought was extraordinary. And
it's funny because he, I,
I was saying, I'm frustrated
by this because of X,
Y, and Z, but he
said, well, wait a minute,
you just said the answer
to your question right here.
And he backed me up
a little bit in my
sentence. And I said, Oh
my gosh, I did didn't
I? So it was pretty,
it was pretty profound. Make
the possible out of the,
well, the dotnet ninjas at
Telerik do they just released
a huge pack of web
controls, all built on top
of aspirin at Ajax, that'll
help you build impossibly fast
and interactive applications in no
time at all. They've made
the impossible possible in desktop
development. If you think you
can have a carousel component
and wind forms while you
can, they're windows form suite
features a super powerful grid
view control on 32 other
crazy desktop components. That'll give
you a dazzling WPF like
features, but in wind farms,
they do the same thing
in reporting solutions with a
new design surface, like nothing
else looks just like graph
paper. Cause you advanced page
layout capabilities makes it feel
more like a graphic design
software than a reporting solution.
Go check them out@telerikdotcomandbea.net Ninja.
Thanks for listening. Hmm, that,
that reminds me of a
story I've told before in
the show where one of
my bosses use this term
about the cell phone antenna
all the time. This is
his standard story that he
would say. So basically, a
guy walks into, you know,
the cell phone provider and
he says, I need a
bigger antenna. And you say,
well, you need a bigger
antenna. Well, what, what exactly
do you need? And this
is the customer saying, I
need a bigger antenna. In
fact, the person is saying,
I need better cell phone
reception. They're coming in with
the solution. So this is
like when the business person
says something like I put
the button right here, or
I think the page should
lay out like this. Those
aren't the kinds of things
that the customer really needs
to be focused on. Those
are the kinds of things
that you need to keep
the customer away from focus
on the problem domain and
keep them away from trying
to solve the problem for
you. Don't let them tell
you that they need a
better cell phone antenna. That's
true. And part of what
that process entails between the
two of them, between you
and your customer is that
you, that shield that you
put up, you know, in
other words, don't focus on
what I'm doing or don't
focus on the technology per
se. But what you do
is you come, you come
to their business, you get
to know their business really
well, but at the same
time, you pull them into
the technology a little bit.
You tell them about, we
have these things called entities
and value objects and all
these other things that you
learn about DDD. But pretty
soon you're talking about the
same thing. And to reflect
back a little bit about
the cart issue I just
had, it was a lot
easier when I was working
with KLA Tencor before it
was a lot easier for
them to sort of understand
their process in terms of
a cart. And so he
would my customer talk about
a cart and he would
talk about a customer. And
so we began to sort
of just talk that way.
And that is what the
term ubiquitous language is all
about. So as we start
talking and I'm diagramming, he
knows precisely what I'm talking
about because when I'm talking
about a cart and I
say to myself, well, I
might as well call it
a cart because that's how
he envisions it. And so
now that you have these
two things together, which is
called the ubiquitous language, you
can start as that as
your foundation, which really led
me to an aha moment.
I just had the standing.
And about 30 seconds ago,
you WhatsApp, I, as you're
speaking, I'm like, it seems
so funny how aha moments,
aren't the ones where you're
your, you know, your brain
completely explodes. And you realize
that you're thinking about it
all wrong. I used to
think aha moments were like
going from like point a
to point Z and just
skipping over all the other
ones. It really is just
an incremental thing. I mean,
it's such an obvious statement.
You just said that you
create, you wanted your design
to use the same vocabulary
that the business person was
using and that there's removing
the, the kind of impedance
mismatch. You know, we spend
so much time as developers
trying to teach the business
person technology and that's completely
wrong headed because technology exists
for one reason. And that
is to make the business
person money, right? It's technology
exists to move the business
forward. So you're saying that
you're creating your entities and
your patterns in a language
that the business person is
familiar with so that when
he just starts describing the
business problem and he's describing
the entities and the, and
the patterns such that you're
going to go, Oh yeah,
well, this is how the
system actually works. So we're
on the same page. I
mean, exactly. And the power
of that statement, we are
on the same page. I
understand your language because we've
spent so much time discussing
the problem domain. Now we
were speaking the same. Yeah.
And that's the term domain
driven it's domain means business.
You model the business in
a domain and, and, and
you, you stick to it
very heavily and it's, it's
quite, it's really, it's nice
because it's an affirmation of
all the things that, you
know, I think consultants have
done where they go in
and, and they sit with
the client and they, they
reason through problems with them.
And one statement that's made
in, I think the Evan's
book is, you know, how
much more valuable of a
consultant are you to, let's
say organization acts, let's say
the organization makes airplanes. If
you're, if you're aeronautical engineer
that happens to know.net and
C sharp really well, how
much more valuable are you
to them than just a
really good C sharp programmer?
And so what the point
of DDD is for you
to strive to know the
industry really, really highly. So
you can actually solve their
problems very well. Right? It
was just kind of funny
because it's, it's a very
Zen thing to just say,
you know, return to the
basics. What exactly are we
trying to do here? You
know, there's a lot of
the meetings that I'm in.
I try to remind people
that the point of the
meeting is to come up
with the next actions to
solve the problem and spend
less time jabbering and more
time really distilling things down
to a space ex there's
a really great blog up
at . If you're familiar
with, with Casey Charleton and
he has a post called
the Dao of domain design,
and he says here, domain
driven design is the latest
software fat. And it's already
becoming a buzzword that recruiters
are looking for. Every developer
wants to do it. And
many think they are doing
it. I think that's really
powerful. He says, it's really
about how developers remove the
artificial boundaries that exist between
IDs it and the business
we're there to support it.
It's, it's just a very
Zen thing. I mean, it's,
it's difficult to put one's
finger on, and that may
be why it's so easy
to kind of throw rocks
at and they say, Oh,
that's just nonsense. That's not
concrete. Exactly. Well, it's also
the main reason why it's
difficult to explain. It's difficult
for someone to get it
across to somebody. I mean,
if I was to say
to you, Scott, tell me
what Zen is all about.
You know, you, you probably
would try and come up
with analogies and you might
slip some jargon in there,
which is exactly the problem
that DDD has. Right. And
Overall, One of the challenges
that I think is facing
DDD, which is something that
I put the other day
on, on Twitter, is to
have somebody out there who
can actually explain it in
real terms. And that we've
actually all been doing it.
And if you, if you're
wondering if you are out
there listening, and you're wondering,
Hm, do I do DDD
or do I not? Is
this something that I've always
been doing the way to
consider? It is something that
I considered myself as when
I walk into a client's
office or when I used
to do I look at
their, what their problem is
that they're telling me and
say, Oh, what you really
need is this type of
application. And you abstract their
problem into your terms of
understanding. That is a point
of failure to a person
who likes Dee Dee Dee
Dee Dee Dee person would
just sit there and listen
and start diagramming, throwing objects
up on the wall. And
pretty soon you're both understanding
the problem together. And you
have an abstracted, their issue
as a programmer would into
your terms. Is that Yeah.
Yeah. Cool. Yeah. I think,
I think that the way
that I learn these kinds
of concepts that best are
when I hear a story
about how it's, how it's
succeeded. I think that when,
when people say, well, give
me specifics, give me specifics.
You know, some people want
a cookbook. They want like,
step-by-step, you know, step one,
find a customer's step to
sit down with a customer
that kind of detail for
me. I prefer success narratives.
When I want to learn
a concept like, like one
of my favorite books is
Eli gold rats, the goal.
Have you ever read the
goal? I haven't it's it's
it's it seems dry, but
it's basically a novel about
a guy who runs a
manufacturing plant. You never really
learn what they're making. They
just use like code words
and stuff, they'll say, yeah,
yeah. The info is ORC
1000. You know, it's, it's,
it's not being built correctly
and you never really learned
what it is cause it's
not really the point. And
the whole book is about
a, of continuous improvement and
how all these different characters
get together and work out
where the bottlenecks are in
the manufacturing process and how
they can better figure out
how to make this, this
particular widget effectively. And the
way that they do it
is, is a, is an
ongoing process of improvement. They
improve this, they improve that
and they, they puzzle it
out. So you're reading about
them, thinking about, you know,
working through their, their own
logic. And I think that,
you know, software books that
are abstract that include, you
know, lots of UML diagrams
are useful to me as
a, as a reference, but
I really prefer reading about
people's people's successes and failures
in, in much more concrete
terms. I like reading blog
posts about people's projects at
work and what they're, what
they're currently doing and how
they're applying something like, you
know, DDD to, to their,
their life, through the life
that they're living right now.
I know that Evan's book
isn't really deep on, on,
on specifics like that. Are
there any resources or are
there any blogs and people
are talking about living DDD
right now, To be honest
with you, you know, I've
found most blog resources out
there that talk about DDD
and, and this isn't meant
to sound negative, but unfortunately
it is. It's a lot
of, a lot of jargon
thrown around and not very
careful explanation about how to
solve a particular problem. And
I'm, you know, the thing
that I'm building out here,
which is an eCommerce store
is probably the ubiquitous sample.
Now short of maybe the
blog engine. And, you know,
I was looking at how
people would solve this and,
you know, I've looked online
at sample applications, but sample
applications are really not the
things you should look at
because they take theory to
the degree. And I haven't
found much of anything to
be honest with you. And
that's probably just because I've
only been looking for a
couple of weeks here, but
I hate to say it
now. I mean, Jimmy Bogard
is a great, a good
blogger on he's on Los
techies. He writes a lot
about DDD and I think
I end day writes a
decent amount of DDD, but
he doesn't really focus on
it. But if you're looking
to learn it by reading
a set of blogs, I
haven't found any. And that's
not to say they're not
out there, but hopefully some
of your readers will, I
enjoy reading. I enjoy reading
code better on covid.com. I
enjoy reading delicious. A lot
of discussion of this happens
in tiny, tiny little snippets
on Twitter, but I keep
getting emails from people saying,
you know, where do I
start? And it's almost like
saying, do you want to
learn how to swim, jump
off this cliff, you know,
and good luck with that
whole swimming thing. Okay. Well,
it is that funny thing
is, Is that the conclusion
of our show here? That's
not good. No, no, no,
not at all. I'm going
to tell you all about
how I'm doing this and
hopefully I can do it
in short order. So this,
the segue into the next
part, you know, so I
had that initial understanding of
trying to slice up the
problem and figure it out
in a different way. Cause
before I was looking at
it like a developer much,
much too much like a
developer. So what I decided
to do is to break
it down and restructure everything.
And so a nice, a
really, a couple of nice
ways that are a couple
of nice things that came
out of reading these books
were software patterns that they
really favor because of the
way they loosely coupled designs
and other patterns, or excuse
me, literally, a couple of
designs and complexity of the
solution. So I'm throwing jargon
at you. I can't stay
on that. So break it
down. Yeah. So what I
did was I, the first
concept I learned was the
concept that Dave Larrabee told
me about, which was the
bounded context. Now what that
means simply is that when
you sit down and you
create a domain, instead of
entities, a things called services,
which I'll go into in
a second, you put them
in a specific context, knowing
in a e-commerce application, you
have actually two contexts at
the very beginning. The first
context is sales. We're actually
trying to sell something. That's
what the UI is mostly
about in an eCommerce store.
So, you know, you have
specials, you have all these
other things, try and get
the person to put something
in your basket and boom,
sell it. That's context. One
context too is actually order
fulfillment. Those are two really
separate and very specific domains.
If you look at any,
any systems. So that was
the first thing. So once
I got past that, I
kind of said, okay, I'm
being big business focused. I
set up two applications or
two libraries that digital. And
then I, I just hard
on the second thing or
that let's say the second
and third thing that go
together. The second thing is
the repository pattern, which we've
been using in the past.
But now that I'm focusing
on DDD, it's got a
little bit of a separate
meaning. The repository is simply
where you are entities are
created from. I think most
people understand that from hearing
the repository before. So the
final thing that goes together
here is the thing called
a unit of work, again,
a pretty bland term. But
what unit of work represents
is it's sort of a
holder for your objects. If,
if I'm explaining this properly,
it manages the state of
the objects that you're playing
with. So if you're familiar
with LinkedIn SQL and you
use the data context, that
data context represents a unit
of work, you ask it
for some entities, you work
with those entities, you might
add it's amenities to that.
And then you say, okay,
submit everything at once that
when you say submit everything
at once or submit all
changes that is known as,
as a unit of work
and kind of an atomic
addition into a database, okay.
Now is it so is
so I started focusing on
those, those aspects and implementing
them into the, into the
project. The next thing I
had to understand was the
difference between entities and value
objects. This, to me, it
was just really hard because
entities or literally anything and
a value object says nothing
to me. So I had
to look and basically understand
what that means. Now, the
difference is an entity is
something you care deeply about
in terms of its identity.
Do you want to persist
it? Do I care about
it two weeks from now?
So in, in, in a
sense in your application, an
order is something you'd care
deeply about and an order
has a specific identity that
you need to work with.
However, an address may not
be in a system that
just simply hasn't addressed, that
that will define where you're
shipping something to you don't
really care. It is just
there simply to decorate or
to kind of add value
or add a description to
an order. So that would
be what's called a value
object. The main difference is
that a value object has
no setters. Primarily it is
only, excuse me. Yeah. It's
only, only has gets on
it. And our main reason,
why is you don't want
it to change. And so
you start setting up those
kinds of rules. It starts
to make sense, like you
set up these lines and
these boundaries inside your application,
and you start to see
things take shape. And I'm
going to take a slight
tangent here and say that
these patterns, the way you
can think about this in
your mind is in terms
of relational theory. So that's
the neat thing about a
database is that we have
relational theory. If you're talking
about a transactional database where
tables have very strict ways
that you're supposed to go
down and follow normalization and
relational theory and the way
you structure it. So everybody
pretty much agrees. And you
know, there's variations, of course,
all this is, is a
type of relational theory for
how you build out your
application. In other words, what
pattern do I use to
represent this status change? What,
how does a customer have
a shopping card or does
a shopping card have a
customer? You see what I'm
saying? So then you kind
of, if you don't know
the answer, you go back
to your client and you
talk to them and you
figured out in a dialogue.
So that that's kind of
how the that's kind of
how it comes together. Now,
what I'm finding here is
a ton of confusion. As
I restructured my application, like,
you know the questions I'm
bringing up now, you know,
like even non down, does
it product have categories? It
is a category. I have
a product. And the question
to the answer turned out
to be neither. I found
that out by having discussions
with my friends and talking
about the problem that I
was trying to solve. And
I normally do that with
a client. I don't have
a client per se, but
I talked to  one
day and he said, well,
this is the gripping of
the, to is not a
concern of either one of
them. It's actually a bit
of logic that lives sort
of yeah. Tangentially to it.
It's, it's a service. And
that's what a, you know,
a service is in DDD
is it is a kind
of a logic dump that
it handles something that an
entity otherwise wouldn't. And so
you start to see these
patterns play out and, and,
and you say, okay, well,
I can start restructuring putting
things together. And as it
comes together and you look
at it, it really makes
you feel good. It's a
little bit of Zen thrown
in the code and you
say, Oh my goodness, this
is awesome. Now I just
throw a bunch of stuff
at you. And I'm sure
you have questions. All good.
Trying to bring that back
to the relationship with the,
in your case, you don't
really have a customer though.
Exactly. Right. Cause you're living
in a little microcosm that
doesn't necessarily reflect reality. So
are you alright, do you
think you're really getting the,
the truth about how this
works when you are your
own customer? You know, that's
a, that's a great question.
And someone pointed me, I'd
say 10 to 20 people
pointed out to me when
I got started and only
10 to 20, you have
believe it or not. No,
but you know, the truth
about it is I'm focusing
on my old client that
I, I think it's pretty
A pretty standard kind of
large corporation that does, that
does eCommerce and the problems
that they had and how
they envisioned stuff. I'm not
going into it as deeply
as they they'd had, but
I'm kind of looking at
things in the way that
they would have, if that
makes sense. I've known that
I've been working, was working
with them for six years.
So I know their business
inside and out, and I
know how they would answer
these questions now because I
got to know my client
that well, is that, Does
that make sense? Yeah, that
makes sense. Yeah, but still,
I think though, that, that,
that I know that when
I was doing agile work
and, and, and, and learning
from guys like Jim shore
about how to really get
started, the, the onsite customer
was very, you know, fundamental.
And I still believe when
we say the onsite customer,
we mean, you know, ideally
they've moved into a cubicle
next to you, but it
means constant and ongoing continuous
communication because, you know, things
like, you know, things like
big upfront design, a bunch
of work, and then customer
acceptance testing is where you'll
get, you'll get nailed. That's
where, where the customer says,
do something, you go running
in the wrong direction. And
then they say, no, no,
no, no, no. Over here
this direction. And then you
spend a lot of time
running around in circles rather
than running in a straight
in a straight line. It
seems like DDD refines that
such that not only is
there this ongoing relationship with
the customer, but you're trying
to make sure that the,
the language that you're using
the, as they say that
ubiquitous language is one that
is absolutely clear. It's clear
to both of you and,
and the, and all the
way down to the point
where the software design, the
patterns that you use and
the code that you write
aligns with the business and
with the expectation that that
customer has, is that, Yeah.
And I can give you,
let me give you a
specific example of the way
that you might reason this
out as a developer, trying
to implement a pattern that
is kind of handled in
DDD. One might be like
the, the idea of creating
an order. And there's a
lot of different, there's a
lot of different considerations when
you create an order, like,
are you creating it new
so that, you know, you're
going to jam it through
the process, or are you
creating a new, a different
type of order, like a
PO that might have a
PO to it. So, you
know, what you could do
is in traditional kind of
C sharp programming is just
create constructor, overloads. And over
time as the complexity grows
in your application, you might
end up with three, four,
whatever constructor overloads with DDD
would say about that is
when you look at those
overloads, do they make sense?
Would they make sense to
your customer? If you're trying
to explain what those overloads
mean, and 99% of the
time, the answer would be
no. Cause cause each one
of the signatures on those
constructors means something to a
programmer, but that doesn't necessarily
mean what they do. So
what they would, w D
D D would say at
that point is, well, you
got a certain level of
complexity here. Let's implement the
factory pattern. And so you'd
create a thing called an
order factory that has specific
logic in it. Now what's
that logic. Well, you sit
down with your customer and
say, well, Hey, you know,
when someone phones in an
order, so in the case
of KLA, Tencor, my client,
I would say, you know,
when someone phones an order
in for a massive manufacturing
machine, what do you do?
They said, well, you know,
we, we pull out an
order sheet and that order
sheet has these, you know,
the name and what the
client, or what the, you
know, what the client wants
and a couple other things
like, Oh, okay. So when
do you use, do you
always use the same sheet?
And so we go through
this Q and a, by
the end of it, I
say, okay, well, let's mirror
what the factory does, according
to what they do. Now,
you can even use the
same thing, create new order
for client, create new order
for star client, whatever. Now
the signature has become extremely
clear. The logic is isolated,
as you've determined it from
your client. That little bit
of logic is isolated in
that factory. It makes great
sense. And then when you
show it to your client,
they understand it. Cool. So
there's all this, it does
assume, which is, I guess,
a reasonable assumption that their
existing business processes working, such
that you would in fact
want to you, you would
in fact when a mirror,
it Exactly. That's exactly right.
And to follow up just
one last thing. I know
we don't have too much
more time, but I I've
decided that for the storefront,
I want to break out
what I'm doing here. This
restructuring stuff into about three
or four episodes. I've got
recorded time from Dave Larrabee
from my end day, Jimmy
Bogard. And I'm going to
probably talk to Scott bellwether
as well, just to get
their take on what I'm
doing, which I think will
be interesting to say the
least To the, the alt.net
podcast. Guys, you should do
it with them. I have
an alt.net podcast tomorrow with
James Avery. And I'm talking specifically
about this. Yeah. So, you
know, my, I have an
ulterior motive here, which is
to kind of bring DD
into the light, which is
funny because it's one of
the DDD core tenants is
to bring problems into the
light. Not that health.net is
a problem, but, or DDD
or anything as a problem,
but I'm trying to bring
it into the light because
it's been a sore subject
with people, you blog about
it. And if you get
it wrong, people, people correct
you. And I'm sure I'm
going to be corrected today
if that's okay, because it
talks a little bit to
the point you made before
about continuous learning. And that
is one of the points
of DDT is to always
learn and to always think
and to always talk. So
it's good. Yeah. Well, I
think it's great. So it
sounds like the way that
people can learn more about
de de de de de
is as opposed to just
randomly searching for on the
web. They can start by
taking a look@theall.net podcast that
are going to be coming
in the next couple of
weeks that you're going to
be working on. They can
check a look at your
blog. They can get involved
in the conversation and they
can certainly read the domain
driven design book by Eric Evans.
Absolutely. And for what it's
worth this, what I'm mostly
going to be focusing on
with the storefront is my
journeys and learning. Not necessarily
what I think is correct.
So that's just more throwing
out there. Cool. Well, Rob,
Conrad, thanks so much for
sitting down with me today
and chatting. Thank you, Scott.
All right. Well, this has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes and I'll see you
again. Next time. .